
Goals for the Music Centre website (as stated by the client):

Membership 
- recruit new members
- increase engagement of members in our activities, e.g. volunteering for administration, organising and promoting concerts and workshops

Concerts 
- increase ticket sales, especially to the general public. 
- encourage performers to let us organise a concert for them
- encourage performers to cooperate with promotion, photo shoots, media releases, etc.

Target audience:
- we "specialise in diversity" i.e. we provide performance opportunities for a very wide range of styles and genres which would otherwise have little exposure, therefore our target audience includes a wide range of ages and tastes. The typical audience may include people with specialised tastes, e.g. classical, jazz, ethnic music, etc. If children are involved, then parents and family members predominate. Every concert, therefore, needs a distinctive theme.


Content from existing site:

--- Home ---

With the support of the Townsville City Council, we work from an office in the Civic Theatre building.
(Take the lift near the ticket office to Level 2) 

"Normal" office hours - 
9.30 -2.30 Monday - Wednesday
Any other time just call 0402 255 182 

Contact Details:- 
Phone   07 4724 2086 
Mobile    0402 255 182 
e-mail us with your query
Postal Address  PO Box 1006, Townsville, Qld 4810
Address  Townsville Civic Theatre, 41 Boundary Street, Townsville, Qld 4810 

Are you new to Townsville?
General information about Townsville is available at -
http://www.townsville.qld.gov.au/townsville/infocentre/Pages/default.aspx

Townsville has a population of about 200,000 and is growing at about 1 suburb per year, so there is a lot of musical activity. All private schools and most government schools have music teachers. The larger private schools are Townsville Grammar, the Cathedral School and Ryan Catholic College. The larger public high schools are Kirwan and Pimlico.

Music Teachers Association of Qld is a good source of information for local music teachers.
The Townsville Branch contact is the Secretary (Ms Margery Jorgensen)
Phone (07) 47790382
Email: mjo11750@bigpond.net.au
Another active teachers’ organisation is the Kodaly Music Education Institute of Australia -
www.kodaly.org.au/
Information on their Townsville Chapter can be found at -
http://webapps.townsville.qld.gov.au/CommunityDirectory/Organisation/OrganisationDetails/1185

Some local businesses also employ or assist music teachers. Try these - 
heather@thekeyboardshop.com.au 
and www.artiesmusiconline.com.au/

Busking is permitted at several public spaces around the city with a Buskers Permit from the city council - phone 4727 9680.
There is no age limit, but buskers 16 and under will need to be accompanied by a parent/guardian.



--- About ---

Based in Townsville, North Qld, the Music Centre presents concerts and workshops throughout the year, in a diverse range of genres including classical, jazz, folk, blues, world and contemporary music, featuring touring artists and locally-based professional and emerging artists.
Civic Theatre
Contact Details:-

Phone   07 4724 2086
Mobile    0402 255 182

Postal Address  PO Box 1006, Townsville, Qld 4810
Address  Townsville Civic Theatre, 41 Boundary Street, Townsville, Qld 4810
email admin@townsvillemusic.org.au

Looking Back - The first 30 years! 

 Print music
The Townsville Community Music Centre celebrated its 30th year in 2013. 

It has been constantly changing over the years to keep up to date with the musical tastes and needs of the Townsville community. As part of the relocation of the Music Centre to the Civic Theatre, Bronia Renison and Jean Dartnall, both librarians, have assessed the old collection of sheet music, books and recorded music which the centre has been storing, unused, for many years. Sometimes older things have to be discarded to make way for the new, but the Music Centre is aware that older material may still have value. 
The National Library of Australia has an online catalogue (TROVE) that lists not only its own holdings but also information about items held by many other libraries around Australia. Using this catalogue Bronia and Jean have identified at least 150 items of music that are not held by any of the country's major libraries. These items have been donated to the National Library to include in their collection and thus made available to all historians and musicians.

Also discovered in the old collection were some pieces relevant to North Queensland. Local musicians performed these at a musical social afternoon on Sunday April 21st in C2 at the Civic Theatre. The remaining sheet music, books and CDs were put on display and distributed free of charge to the local music community.

A Brief History
by Jean Dartnall

1983	 	The Townsville Community Music Centre was established at a public meeting on May 24th. Then Deputy Mayor, Ken McElligott, opened the meeting and presented a cheque for $50 from the City Council to cover initial petty cash, the Centre's first funds. At the meeting an executive committee was formed. Over the next few weeks that committee drafted a constitution which was endorsed at another public meeting on June 15th. Fred Thompson was Chairman from September 1983, with Gordon Dean as his Deputy and Jan Eagleton as Secretary.
1984	-	Mira Henderson, who had extensive experience in community music work in England, was the first staff member. (Her position was Acting Director because she was only in Townsville for a brief spell.) She instigated a series of classes starting in 1984 using the skills of people living in Townsville to enhance and encourage music learners of all ages.
1985	-	Kirsty Veron was appointed as the first Director. Kirsty was very interested in teaching music to children and had worked with Mira in the 1983 classes. She held this position until 1988 leading the new organisation into a strong position in the Townsville arts community.
1985	-	The Music Centre produced Benjamin Britten's Noyes Fludde in St James Anglican Cathedral. This involved hundreds of children and some of Townsville's best known (and loved) musicians. It was produced by Rachel Berker (now Rachel Matthews) and involved Bernie Lannigan and Sandra Voss in the main parts rehearsed by Bill Williams; Donna McMahon and Jenny Carr rehearsing the strings and recorders and guest conductor Donald Hollier. This was by the no means the only major production mounted by the Music Centre but was probably the largest.
1987	-	This was the year of the first fund raising dinner. These dinners became a tradition as they were a wonderful mixture of good food, good wine and good music. The first ones were held at the home of Paul and June Tonnoir in North Ward. Later they moved to the Bishop's Lodge as guests of the Anglican Bishop. Attendees would often book their tickets for the next year's dinner as soon as they had attended this one. They ran until 2004.
1988	-	Mary Lou Schoenfeldt was appointed as Administrator. Although this was initially a small part time job with limited responsibilities, Mary Lou made the job, the Centre and indeed music in Townsville, her own. She was a wonderful asset to the Centre and to the cultural life of the City until she had to retire due to ill health in 2003.
1990	-	This year the first lunchtime concert was held at the PercTucker Gallery. The importance of providing performance opportunities for emerging musicians had become evident and from this time, for a number of years, one of the major activities of the Centre was the production and management of concerts.
1999	-	Arts Queensland had been a major funder of Music Centre activities for a number of years but in this year they agree to provide funding on a three year basis. This made it much easier for the Centre to plan ahead and reduced the time that had to be spent on repetitive grant applications. This arrangement ran until 2004.
2003	-	A spectacular variety concert was held at the Townsville Civic Theatre to celebrate twenty years of the Music Centre and as a tribute to May Lou.
2005	-	The Centre moved to offices in the Old Magistrate's Court.
More details of the period 1983 - 2008 can be found in the book, 
"Townsville Community Music Centre: some memories of the first 25 years" 
by Jean Dartnall. (Copies available from the Music Centre)
2012	-	The Centre moved to its present office in the Townsville Civic Theatre building.



--- Members ---

You can support the Music Centre by becoming a Member and derive some benefits for yourself at the same time. Your subscription helps to keep us operating and we provide substantial discounts whenever possible. 

For the Music Centre's own events, Members' ticket discounts can be as high as 50%!

The Music Centre is also registered as a Deductible Gift Recipient. Any extra donations are tax-deductible!
To become a Member, or to update an existing Membership -
Download the Application FormComplete and return the form with cheque to -

Townsville Community Music Centre
PO Box 1006, Townsville, Qld 4810

or email -
admin@townsvillemusic.org.au
or see below to pay online with PayPal or credit card
Individual membership	$25	per year	
Tax-deductible donation	-	-	



--- Sponsors ---

Townsville City Council 
The Council's Partnerships and Sponsorships scheme provides vital core funding which enables us to maintain the administrative base for all our other activities, and also provides the premises which house our office space. 
The Council also assists with the performance venues for our concerts and workshops. 

Queensland Government 
The Gambling Community Benefit Fund has assisted us to obtain office equipment and sound and lighting equipment for our productions 



--- Bulletins ---

Posted 24-Mar-15
Chord Organ 
Volunteer Singers / Musicians 

Our Parish Priest, Fr Mick Peters, is trying to development and foster a community for our 6 PM Vigil Mass at St Josephs on the Strand. 
I'm helping by organising an event format, where I invite our members to bring a plate for a buffet and I provide music, or friends who can sing or perform. 
Now that we are achieving some success, we need more people who can sing or play music. 
I'm open to any kind of singing or performing so long as it is not too controversial. My preference would be for an artist to sing a medley of old time favorites. 
Mass starts at 6pm and finishes about 10 to 7. 

If you would like to take part, please call Merle Trembath 0418882633 anytime 

Posted 21-March-15
TCB logo CALL OUT FOR MUSOS 
Calling all Muso’s, entertainers, performers. We are looking to book performers/musicians/entertainers for a family friendly festival at the Ingham Tyto Wetlands on the 23rd of May. This inaugural annual event is a family fun day in the parklands and we are looking for appropriate acts. We are looking for a wide variety of bands and entertainers from our local and surrounding areas. 

Deadline for initial submissions 29 March 2015. 
Artists will need to be insured for public liability. 
If you are interested please email details, examples or links to your work and a quote including travel expenses for performing at the event to the Event Stage Manager Emile Griffiths -
mutec.audio@gmail.com
see our Facebook page
Posted 17-Mar-15
Chord Organ Rouvas Academy of Singing 

I have been in the music industry in Sydney for over 30 years in the capacity of singing teacher, stage performer, singer and musician. My daughter Diana Rouvas was a finalist in the 2012 “The Voice” television show and she is a testament to what can be achieved with correct vocal training. Allow me to show you her technique and give yourself the opportunity to excel as a vocalist. Skype lessons also available 
Visit rouvasacademyofsinging.com.au
or phone John 0404 044 823
Posted 09-Mar-15
Chord Organ Music teaching by Effortless Technique 
Are you struggling to master sections of your pieces at tempo? Are you stressing that you won’t be prepared because you don’t have enough time to practice? Would you like to learn efficient and effective practice skills and strategies to help you play those difficult sections with confidence and ease and to the best of your ability? 
Visit us on Facebook
Email Cassandra Fixter
or phone 0423 626 501
Posted 17 March 15

Would you like to see Metropolitan Opera productions screened in Townsville?
Met Opera 2015
The Metropolitan Opera’s award-winning series of operas in HD continues featuring ten operas captured live in high definition direct from New York, and screening concurrently with the NY season. 
Follow this link for more information: http://www.sharmillfilms.com.au/?page_id=2195#cinemas 

Event Cinemas are considering bringing the Met Opera HD series to Townsville. If you would like to encourage them to go ahead, please email Alexis at support@eventcinemas.helpserve.com with a simple message such as, ‘Please bring Met Opera to Townsville’. You may of course add additional comments if you wish. 

Should you decide to contact Alexis, the Music Centre would appreciate receiving a copy of your email, as it will help us assess the level of support from the Townsville arts community. Please copy your email to admin@townsvillemusic.org.au 

We invite you to forward this message to others who may be interested.
Posted 16-March-15
Office Administrator required!
The Townsville Community Music Centre is getting busier all the time, and we need a part-time Office Administrator. 
This is a long-term, part time, part-paid position (all conditions are negotiable). 
Experience with not-for profit organisations would be an advantage. 
We use MYOB and Microsoft Office, mostly Word and Excel. 
For more information -
-- email us --
or phone Jeff 4724 2086
Posted 15-March-2015
Dear fellow musos 
I sing and play keyboard (when I have one). 
Blues/jazz songs mostly.
-- Please email Ada Knowles --



--- Events ---

SUNDAY VARIETY CONCERT 
Presented by Friends of the Theatre 
2pm Sunday 26 April at Pimlico Performing Arts Centre 
Fulham Road 
Enquiries - please phone 4723 7879
Harbourside Duo 
presents 
Dream Serenade. 
Music of Debussy, Ravel, Saint- Saens, Sibelius and others. 

March into Sommarhagen! 

Dance the Habanera 
with the Girl with Flaxen Hair! 

Be seduced by Thais! 
Or just relax and let the music wash over you.
2pm Sunday 17 May at C2 (Townsville Civic Theatre)
Aviva logo
Aviva String Quartet 
Following the phenomenal success of their 2014 season, the superb foursome return with their first concert for 2015, bringing their signature style of classical and modern music to the masses in their own fresh and entertaining style. 

featuring 
Caroline Lloyd-Doolan on violin 
Susan Fraser on violin 
Jessica Winton on viola 
Ivy Wu on cello 
 Ticketshop link	2pm Sunday 14 June at C2 (CivicTheatre building) 
$25 Adult - $20 Concession - Children 12 and under free!
 TCB logo
Townsville Concert Band 
2pm Sunday 28 June at C2 (Townsville Civic Theatre)
Pimlico choir
Voices of Pimlico 
2pm Sunday 6 September at C2 (Townsville Civic Theatre)
TCB logo
Townsville Concert Band 
2pm Sunday 27 September June at C2 (Townsville Civic Theatre)
Allegro Choir
Allegro Choir 
2pm Sunday 22 November at C2 (Townsville Civic Theatre)
Aviva logo
Aviva String Quartet 

The superb foursome return with their final concert for 2015, bringing their signature style of classical and modern music to the masses in their own fresh and entertaining style. 

featuring 
Caroline Lloyd-Doolan on violin 
Susan Fraser on violin 
Jessica Winton on viola 
Ivy Wu on cello 
2pm Sunday 29 November at C2 (Townsville Civic Theatre)



Individual Muso Content:


Aquapella are 50 singers from the Townsville area bringing you a cappella world music at its very best: inspiring and uplifting harmonies from around the globe. A South African party song, a Hungarian love triangle, "The Lion Sleeps Tonight" in French - a sumptuous variety of different languages, stories, rhythms and moods to entertain and move you in the wonderful common language of music. Come along and travel the world by song!

Choir director Beat Lehmann was born in Switzerland where he first became involved in choir music by participating in classical productions like Handel's Messiah, Mozart's Mass in C minor etc. A study year abroad gave him the opportunity to sing with the Pontardullais Welsh Male Choir. After completing an M.A. in Social Anthropology he concentrated on his other passion, dance, directing a Modern Dance Company for several years. In 1986, Beat migrated to Australia where he completed a Ph.D. in Linguistics and involved himself in choir music again. For 12 years he conducted AkaBella, a well-known world music choir from Bellingen, NSW. AkaBella participated in major festivals like the National Folk Festival in Canberra, the Bellingen Global Carnival and theWoodford Folk Festival where they featured in the ABC documentary Ã¬Festival on Fire and launched their first CD 'Mosaic'. Beat moved to Magnetic Island in 2003 and has established a similarly successful world music choir for the Townsville area. Beat's choirs focus on the rich musical heritage of cultures around the globe. A South African party song, a Hungarian love triangle, a Mexican lullaby, a French version of 'The Lion Sleeps Tonight' to delve into the incredible variety and depth of a cappella world music and the cultures it represents, is not only fun, but a very enriching and uplifting experience.

Aquapella won the ABC Choir of the Year competition for Queensland in 2006.
beatlehmann@iprimus.com.au


Aviva Quartet
 Aviva

Four talented musicians combine their skills in a variety of musical styles including fiery Rhumbas, Tangos, Serenades - a mixture of the most devine and swoon-worthy pieces, guaranteed to delight the senses. 
The group features Caroline Lloyd-Doolan and Susan Fraser on Violin, Ivy Wu on Cello and Jessica Winton on viola. 

Caroline is a well known performer both locally and regionally and Susan is also well known on the local music scene. 
Ivy hails from Brisbane having completed her studies in France. 
Jessica has come back to Townsville after completing her degree in Tasmania. 

The girls all have a passion for chamber music and are very excited to be able to form up a group that will be able to perform regularly both locally and in the surrounding regions. 
Their concert will take listeners through a wonderful journey of beautiful melodies and the most romantic music that is guaranteed to leave the senses fulfilled and wanting more. 


For more information -

Phone   07 4724 2086
Mobile    0402 255 182

e-mail admin@townsvillemusic.org.au


The Camerata Singers
 Poms from Oz 
The concept of the Camerata Singers originated in the 1980s when Susan Grinsell, who was teaching voice at James Cook University realised that ensemble singing was sadly lacking for tertiary music students. Since then, Susan, along with repetiteur Carol Dall’Osto, has strived to bring quality ensemble singing to the wider community by performing at events from the Ingham Italian Festival through to Cotter’s Markets in the mall. 

The Camerata Singers comprises a group of trained singers, both male and female, from age 18 and over who strive to provide quality performances in a range of styles from classical through to A cappella and contemporary. A number of members also regularly participate in local music theatre and theatre productions. For further information or bookings contact the Music Centre 4724 2086
or email admin@townsvillemusic.org.au


Celtic Fyre
 Celtic Fyre 
The alternative celtic rock band from North Queensland

Typical audience response: - "WOW - I wasn't prepared for that! Racing around the stage in kilts, blowing bagpipes, jumping from one instrument to the next, these guys know how to entertain!" 

They will break your heart with the mournful and eerie sounds of the Great Highland Bagpipe and then crank it up real hard and rock you 'til you drop. 

This 11 piece band is a fun-loving kick-em-in-the-pants band that just wants to rock - celtic style! 

www.celticfyre.com


Dirty DozenFacebook link
Townsville's dynamic 12-piece Stage Band! 

Jazz, rock, blues and modern top-40 songs featuring vocalists, trumpets, saxophones, trombone, drums, piano/keyboard and guitars. 

Some titles from the repertoire   -   It Don't Mean a Thing   -   Mustang Sally   -   Spinning Wheel   -   Moondance   -   In the Midnight Hour   -   Le Belleclaire Blues   -   Lady Madonna   -   Skyfall   -   Shake a Tail Feather   -   Soul Man   -   Peter Gunn   -   Minnie the Moocha   -   Sweet Home Chicago   -   R.E.S.P.E.C.T.   -   Everybody   -   Leave Your Hat On   -   Superstition   -   The Letter   -   Proud Mary   -   Knock on Wood   -   I Got You   -   ROCK in the USA   -   December 1963 (Oh What a Night!)   -   Don't Know Why   -   Walkin' on Sunshine 

Contact Andi Hodgson 0421 072 625 


Harbourside Duo
 Poms from Oz 
Harbourside Duo is a new ensemble performing in Townsville and North Queensland featuring Monica Martin on Violin and David Roberts on Classical Guitar. 
We perform a fine selection of music from Latin, Jazz, Celtic, Classical and popular styles. 
Harbourside Duo is available for Corporate Functions, Weddings and private gatherings. 
For further information or bookings contact David Roberts 0459 239 290
Visit www.davidrobertsguitar.com.au/Harbourside-Duo.html
Visit our website


Poms from Oz
 Poms from Oz 
Poms from Oz are Judy, Kathleen and Alan Pomeroy, a family of solo vocalists from North Queensland, Australia. All are dinky di Oz with Judy and Kathy being descendents of First Fleeters. 

Their tight harmony and vocal strength bring a fresh feel to original, contemporary and traditional works, uncovering a rich tapestry of songs gathered in their travels from around the world. Most songs are a cappella but sometimes accompanied by guitar and/or harmonica. Moods in their songs range from downright to real tear jerkers and audience participation is encouraged. Their sound is distinctive, as Judy arranges all the songs specifically for their voices. 

A tast brew of Oz songs and Oz voices, with a dash of guitar and harmonica. Open a nice bottle of red , sit back and enjoy. For further information or bookings contact the Music Centre 4724 2086
or email admin@townsvillemusic.org.au


Rosewood Guitar Quartet
 Rosewood 
Add some elegance to your next social event!
Have the Rosewood Guitar Quartet provide that special atmosphere by playing for your guests
Sample CD available on request
Phone: 0427 255 125
or email Joanne


TCB logo 
The Townsville Concert Band are currently looking for musician members. 
This is a local community band who meet once a week for rehearsals, and who play gigs around town throughout the year. The band plays a range of different styles of concert band music, ranging from classical to musical theatre and modern. 
All levels and ages are welcome.
For more information -
-- email us hollie.clark1@jcu.edu.au
or phone Hollie: 04019 151 185
or phone Mark: 0408 088 675
see our Facebook page


Wassa
 Wassa 
Wassa is a six-piece percussion group performing traditional rhythms from West Africa on traditional instruments. The Townsville based group has been performing throughout North Queensland and as far as Papua New Guinea since 2001. 

http://www.therhythmconnection.com/wassa.html



The Stokes Nicholson Big Band was formed in 1991 through collaboration between the late Roy Stokes and Les Nicholson. Each man had his own individual reasons for wanting a Big Band, perhaps influenced by the difference in their ages with Roy being 17 years older than Les. Roy wanted to create an opportunity to keep experienced musicians playing challenging music so their talents didn't go rusty. Les came from a different perspective and wanted to provide an opportunity for music students of all ages to sit beside experienced jazz musicians to absorb the musical synergy that classroom teaching alone cannot develop. 

A number of experienced musicians were invited to join the various sections of the new Big Band with most sections being led by a member of Les' already well-established Pacific Mainstream Jazz Band. The original Principals were Roy Stokes (not a member of PMJB), saxophone; Les Nicholson, trumpet; Neville Minon, trombone; and Bob Hebden, rhythm. Roy, Neville and Peter Alloway were all still private music teachers at this time and some of their pupils were the first students to be part of this adventure.

The Stokes Nicholson Big Band was up and running, meeting once a month for rehearsals with an expectation that each section would practise individually or as a group in between these rehearsals.

Sadly Roy passed away on 1st January 1993 after a period of illness. Les continued to manage the band and conduct rehearsals, as well as playing first trumpet. In 1997 he enlisted the help of John Ruffle who took on the role of Musical Director, allowing Les to relax a little and enjoy his playing more. Roy would no doubt be very proud to see how much his beloved Big Band has developed since its formation as it is now a very accomplished band with a diverse repertoire and the technical expertise capable of backing great Jazz singers.

The band today demonstrates it has achieved the aims of both Roy and Les with experienced musicians arriving in town and feeling very proud to join such a powerful big band. A number of the original student members from 1991 are still in the band and have now joined the ranks of the experienced musicians and new students are still progressing from school bands to the Stokes Nicholson Big Band.
